---
title: "The-Earliest-and-Latest-Rounds-Where-Players-Compete"
question_id: "1900"
question_link: "https://leetcode.com/problems/the-earliest-and-latest-rounds-where-players-compete/"
difficulty: "Hard"
---

Originally, my solution was to just **depth-first search** through all the possible rounds
(given that the constraints were not too large)
and simulate all the possible rounds.

However, there exists a simpler way to phrase the question;
for `firstPlayer` and `secondPlayer` to play against each other, 
there has to be an **equal** number of people to the left of `firstPlayer`
as there is to the right of `secondPlayer`.

This is intuitive, as we do not really care about the **initial positions** of characters in the game.
For example, given the initial state `1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6` where `firstPlayer = 1` and `secondPlayer = 2`,
realise that after one round, we get:

- `1, 2, 3`, where `3` beats `4`
- `1, 2, 4`, where `4` beats `3`

which is *logically equivalent*. 
By abstracting away the information of characters **initial positions**,
it reduces the solution space that we need to search and simplifies the algorithm profusely.

If we denote the number of elements left of `firstPlayer` (including `firstPlayer` itself) as `l`,
and the number of elements right of `secondPlayer` (including `secondPlayer` itself) as `r`,
then, without loss of generality, let us assume that `l < r` (due to symmetry).

If `l == r`, then both players must play each other **next round**, 
so we can update both the `minRound` and `maxRound` if necessary.

Let us also define the total head-count of players per round.
If we start with `n` players, 

- if `n` is odd, then there is gonna exist `floor(n/2)+1 = floor((n+1)/2)` players in the following round
- if `n` is even, then there is gonna exist `n/2 = floor((n+1)/2)`

meaning, whatever happens, we will always have `floor((n+1)/2)` players in the next round.

Since `l < r`, 
all the `l` players will be facing players to the **right** of `secondPlayer`.
After playing this round, we know that `l` will be have to take a value between `1` and `l`,
since either *everyone loses* (except)` firstPlayer` or *everyone wins* or something in between occurs.
Thus, we can denote the number of players that win on the left as `i`.

Then, if `i` players win on the *left* side, that implies that at a **bare minimum**,
`l - i + 1` players on the right hand side must win (the `+ 1` is from `secondPlayer`).
If we denote the number of players that win on the *right* side as `j`,
then we can keep on incrementing `j` until `i+j` reaches the minimum value of `r` or `floor((n+1)/2)`.

Note, using the **minimum value of `r` or `floor((n+1)/2)`** as our limit for `i + j` make sense;
we cannot start with more people that we started with (hence the `r`)
and the sum of `i + j` must not surpass the amount of players in the next round.

Finally, we also have to check that there are not too many losers
(as every round, `floor(n/2)` players **have** to lose),
so we also have to sum `(l-i) + (r-j)` and check that it is *smaller than or equal to* `floor(n/2)`
before recursively running the function for the next round.

Overall, this means we have to search through a smaller solution space and use up less auxiliary space on the stack from recursive calls.

# cod<span>e</span>

```{.cpp}
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> earliestAndLatest(int n, int firstPlayer, int secondPlayer) {
        recursion(1, firstPlayer, n-secondPlayer+1, n);
        return {minRound, maxRound};
    }
private:
    int minRound = INT32_MAX;
    int maxRound = 0;
    void recursion(int round, int l, int r, int n) {
        if (l == r) {
            minRound = min(minRound, round);
            maxRound = max(maxRound, round);
            return;
        }

        if (r < l) {
            swap(l, r);
        }

        for (int i = 1; i < l+1; ++i) {
            for (int j = l-i+1; i + j <= min(r, (n+1)/2); ++j) {
                if (l + r - (i + j) <= n / 2) {
                    recursion(round+1, i, j, (n+1)/2);
                }
            }
        }
    }
};
```

## complexit<span>y</span>

:::sidebar
- Time: `O(n^2 log(n))` (????) where `n` is just the input `n`
- Space: `O(1)`
:::

## time take<span>n</span>

:::sidebar
- I FORGOT TO TIME, but this would lowkey take some time
:::
